in this video let us learn about indirect recursion
If a function is calling itself it is known as
direct Recursion
But if a function one is calling function two and
that function two is calling back function one then it
is known as indirect recursion it is also
known as mutual
recursion See this example here function A is calling B and
B is calling A So this is indirect Recursion
The function is not directly calling but is indirectly calling
itself Let me see an example
So we have two functions odd and even there is
a global variable n declared and initialised to one
Then there is odd function definition and even function definition
and firstly the programme is calling the function odd
So function odd will get executed it first checks if
n equal to five it is not so
It will print odd one
Now n is incremental so n equal to two now
and even function is called So function even will get
executed
And here it checks if n equal to five
But it is not so
The message even two is printed and n is incremented
and then function odd is called
So as you can see function odd called even and
even is now calling odd back
So this is indirect recursion
So now function odd will get executed and N is
not equal to five
So the message odd three is printed and n is
incremented and becomes four and function even is now
called See again indirect Recursion function even called odd
An odd is now calling even back so function odd
and even are calling themselves indirectly in this programme
So in function even n is not equal to five
So the message even four is printed and N is
now incremented and becomes five and the function odd is
called so in odd n equal to five so control
will return from the function.